1. What topic in science or math do you currently find most interesting and why? When and how did you become aware of it? How have you explored it?

When I was in primary school, my math grade was very usual. I could always feel my parents’ disappointment when I took the test papers home. But then in the sixth grade, somehow, my math score improved a lot. In the final examination, with excellent grade in math, I got the first place in the whole grade. This was the first time when I found math to be useful.
When I was in middle school, maths was no longer that important and gradually became a normal subject just like the others. Until the summer of the ninth grade. When I was attending CTD in Northwestern University, one of my classmates developed an intriguing game, using an ingenious algorithm. I realized math’s unique charm to me.
After a busy year in IBDP curriculum, we were told that relevant researches should be started on the Extended Essay as early as possible. I wanted to choose math as the subject for the Extended Essay. However, I was told that there was only one student who got A in math Extended Essay in our school. When I ask my parents for advise, they advised Chinese. Because the rate of getting A is much bigger for Chinese. This time, math is no longer useful.
But I’m still struggling. When I was collecting information for ideas and proof procedure, I was amazed by math’s rigorous logic and elegant expressions. I want to be one of those people who could use the language of math to communicate. I know my parents’ suggestions are right. But this time whether math is important is up to me.

2. We know you lead a busy life, full of activities, many of which are required of you. Tell us about something you choose to do for enjoyment or relaxation.

 The main relaxation for me is to play urheen, a traditional Chinese instrument. There are only two strings on this instrument. But with the two strings, it could play thousands of songs.
 I have been learning urheen since eight years old. Most of my classmates who learnt with me gave up but I did not. Because urheen is the key to a different world. When I'm playing the urheen, everything else in the world no longer matters. When my schedule is filled with deadlines, urheen would always help me out by bringing a time for me to relax.
 Another way for relaxation is to play the game of GO, which has a history of over 3,000 years in China. I have been playing the game of GO since 5 years old. Through attending various competitions, I gained the happiness of success and the sadness of failure. When I am bothered by a problem, I would take an ancient game record, placing how ancient people played the game of GO. When the stone touches the go board, I feels like I pass through hundreds of years and feel the life of the ancient player. The game of GO helps me to grow.

3. Describe your personal "world"; for example, your family, school, community, city. How has your environment shaped your dreams and aspirations?

My great-grandfather lived in a small village. In order to run away from wars, he moved to Suzhou with my grandfather. But my grandfather had a strange illness which almost killed him. He sacrificed his ears to to survive. That year, he was only 10 years old.
When the Lord closes one door, somewhere else he opens a window. Though my grandfather was deaf, he was very clever. At a young age, he started to work in a ironmongery. He could learn anything in a short time. He even helped the army to fix guns and bullets. When my grandmother was giving birth to my father, my grandfather helped instead of going to the hospital.
My father brought hope for my grandfather. Even though my grandfather was only in school for several years, he knew that knowledge was the only thing that could change one’s life. He wanted my father to be better than him. He worked hard to save money for my father’s study. With my father’s own effort, he became the first person to attend college in the family.
I am the only child of my parents. They both love me very much, but maybe a little disappointment that I am a girl. They want to me to be more educated just like my grandfather. They would support me no matter what I want to learn, no matter how expensive the course is. But at the same, they don’t want me to be too busy and tiring. Because I am a girl, they wanted me to study business management. Science and engineering would be too hard for a girl. But when I designed a lamp controlled by mobile phones that could solve the problem that my grandfather could not hear the door bells, they smiled.
I want to tell my father that I could excel the boys and I would be better than you.


4. There are many ways to spend your summer. Why specifically are you applying to SSP?

 I had always thought that I was good at math. But when I was talking with my math teacher about the extended essay on math, I realized that I only knew the basic knowledge of math. I spent too much time learning how to solve math problems. I learnt how to answer the questions and do papers but no one taught me how to use math to do research, how to write a math essay. I hope I could these abilities in SSP which would help a lot during the writing of extended essay.
 Also, I noticed that the final assignment in SSP would be done in the form of three students. I am very fond of this form. I enjoy working with students from different countries, different countries and different backgrounds. Looking at the sky and working for 40 days for the same goal would double the happiness.
 Also, I have read many passages from SSPers. All of them thought SSP was a great experience for them. I know there are many summer programs, but I believe my choice is right.

5.
 Describe a life challenge (of any nature, past or present)
 在IB学习中时间不够用，练出了在被子里盲打的技能

I chose International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme for the 11th and the 12th grade. I have two years to learn six subjects, a 4000-word essay and 150 hours of service, activity and creativity. Time was limited and there were always deadlines after one another. Everyone was trying to squeeze time from everywhere.
I study at a boarding school. Despite the rigorous curriculum we had to handle, there were also many rules to follow in the dorm. One that has been criticized a lot is lights out after 11 o’clock PM and everyone should be in bed. Teachers would come to each dorm from time to time to check if everyone is in bed. But time was never enough. So we had different ways to deal with the situation. One of my roommates would get up early if she could not finish her work on time. The other roommate would take her computer and cover her head under the blanket to avoid light. But both these methods are not very comfortable.
I preferred to sit on a chair instead of lying in a bed. But the light of the computer’s screen would draw the teachers. She could see the light from the window on the door from far, far away. Even we were whispering in the dorm, she could hear us talking from outside and walk in to warn us. Therefore, if I use computer on a chair, she could definitely see from outside and points would be deducted. However, I thought that if the light came from the screen, I only need to cut the light of the screen. But is it possible to abandon the screen when writing an essay?
I could type without looking at the keyboard but without screen would be quite a challenge. But due to all the deadlines I had, I had to give it a try.
By turning off the light of the screen, the dorm went black. My fingers were typing the keyboard but I could not see the screen. So I did not know am I typing the words right. When I turn on the light of the screen, I saw many red wavy underlines, indicating spelling mistakes. But I had to keep using this method because I did not have any other solutions.
After some time of practice, I could avoid the mistakes in English. But when writing Chinese paper, the problem could not be solved. Because Chinese has many words with the same pronunciation so there will be a list of different options to choose. But without the screen, I cannot see the options. Therefore, when “touch-typing” Chinese essays, I was typing an article that needs revision. But when I tried to learn about the input method, I could feel that the words I was looking for were normally the first ones on the option list. Even if I was typing an unusual word and it would not appear on the first or second on the option list, I could guess that maybe it is the fifth. When I turn on the screen, it was on the fifth. But most of the time, the Chinese article would seem rather strange.
By typing essays in a complete dark dorm, my efficiency improved a lot because I could spend more time. Even though life is still filled with deadlines, I managed to finish them on time.

 Describe an achievement that you are personally proud of
 组建国际部乒乓球队从去年的倒数第一到今年的第一名

 I enjoyed playing table tennis since a very young age. The happiness and joy table tennis brought was much more than during a competition.
 My high school is school with thousands of students. Every year, there would be a sports meeting including different ball games. In the tenth grade, I attend the table tennis competition representing DP division. However, because it was my first year, I was not familiar with my teammates and opponents. And our teacher did not assign us different roles. So we did not win a single match and ranked the last.
 After the competition, I thought about the reasons and believed it was because we almost never practiced. So I started to set up the table tennis club in our division. But because we all had a busy life, students who could play well were not willing to join the club. I went from one class to another, talked to every student who were interested in table tennis. I assigned the time of the training based on the timetable of every student who were willing to join the club. Finally, some students were willing to join. We promised that we would have training every week no matter how busy we would be.
 A year passed and the sports meeting started. But many students were not confident. Especially when the Hong Kong division quit the competition, who ranked the second to last in last year’s competition, their confidence were strongly influenced. Many were also saying that there was no way that we could win. "I would not give up on the competition. Even if none of you attend the competition, I still will. I know how important the competition is in my high school life. And I don't want to leave any disappointment." We formed the best team we could, including the strongest players.
 Out of everyone's expect, the team that almost quit the competition won. We won all the rounds with other divisions and became the champion.

 Describe a time when you could have taken the easy way out, but didn't
 这部分谈你选择IB课程的心理历程

I like to attend different competitions, including sports and music, my strengths and my weaknesses, without any reasons. Sometimes I did not even know what exactly was the competition about. I would first sign up then search for the competition. When I think about it now, it was probably because that I enjoyed the nervous atmosphere during the competition, that everyone was preparing themselves. I don’t care about winning or losing. Because either way, I believe I gained more than living a normal life.
But the most difficult choice was not from any competition, but when I was choosing high school. I had offers from A-Level, AP and IB. Because I was good at Maths and other science subjects, my parents advised me to choose AP or A-Level because there was too much writing assignment in IB. But when I heard a senior in the IB school introducing the IBDP curriculum, saying that IB students not only had to finish a 4,000-word essay, but also an internal assessment for each subject, usually in the form of essays. The literature course would require reading reports on different books almost every two months. Theory of knowledge and 150-hour of creativity, activity and service were also something that other courses did not ask for. IB students had very busy but full life. I felt like attending a competition, competing with time.
I spent a lot of time convincing my parents. In AP or A-Level, I could choose maths and other science subjects that I was good at. It would be a much easier life for me. But what I wanted was the life of studying IB, fast-paced and full. Maybe I will lose, but I believe that I would gain more.

Is there a broader context that we should know about when comparing your qualifications (including grades and test scores) to other applicants? Examples include family responsibilities, English as a second language, health issues, or other personal circumstances. If so, explain.
If you are a sophomore, explain why are you applying this year rather than waiting until next year.




Recommadation letter

As a physics teacher, I am very happy to recommend my student Michelle to you. Although I have not taught her for a long time, about five months or so, I was very impressed with her.

I remembered her name for the first time I took over the class, checking the each student's grades in the class, I was amazed to find that Michelle got 7 in every exam in the 10th grade. It made me very impressive.

Later in the class, I paid extra attention to the child, and found that she was a lively girl with excellent grades in every subject and a thoughtful child as well. She once lost a table tennis match.  But instead of upsetting, she came to me to discuss how different pats and rubber effect the route of the table tennis ball. I would be happy to discuss the interesting topic with her. But, for improving her table tennis skills, I suggested that she need to find a table tennis coach to discuss.

After entering the 11th grade, the difficulty of the physical increased and the progress is accelerated. Michelle has a wide interest and many other activities. So less time is spent on study. There were some fluctuations in the exams grade. Taking a seven is  also more and more difficult, this also is very normal. No matter whether she can get 7, I still think Michelle is one of the best students in my class. She has a good student's mind and the ability to learn. I am sure that she has the ability to participate in any project learning, without a doubt!


Michelle's learning ability is very good, but she has strong enterprising spirit and curiosity. Not only in her seriousness to learning, but also in her strong desire to explore the unknown areas. She is willing to try both known and unknown things. Like when she was playing erhu, she had strong interest in musical instruments and wanted to do an experiment to study the principle of harmonic. Although due to some problems of the experimental equipment, the experiment was not very successful. But I appreciate her spirit of exploring the questions.

She is also very popular when doing group projects. She is always willing to take most of the work. And she never complains about the work assigned to her. She is a person with team spirit, a responsible person, and a good partner.


For Michelle, a transcript cannot reflect all of her. She also takes a lot of work after class. Not only as the founder of table tennis club, but also as a member of a public welfare club, mainly responsible for recycling and disposal of school garbage. In the work of garbage collection, she is good at thinking, and she has pulled two friends to set up a project team to design an intelligent garbage selector.

Their plan is finished. And they are now participating a competition in Shanghai on behalf of our school. The results haven't come out, but, whatever the result, it can be seen that the projects Michelle undertakes are quite difficult for high school students. This is also why she wants to apply for the SSP I guess.
